Add Rust client tutorial + samples, redo transactions in all languages (#5780)
edgedb/edgedb: docs/clients/rust/getting_started.rst

.. _ref_rust_getting_started:

Getting started
---------------

From examples repo

> ------------------

Reviewer: ```suggestion
==================
```

If you just want a working repo to get started, clone the Rust client 
`examples repo`_, type ``edgedb project init`` to start an EdgeDB
project, and then ``cargo run`` to run the samples.

This tutorial contains a lot of similar examples to those found in the
``main.rs`` file inside that repo.

From scratch
------------

The minimum to add to your Cargo.toml to use the client is `edgedb-tokio`_:

> .. code-block::

Reviewer: Just recently learned this language is available!

```suggestion
.. code-block:: toml
```

Author: Nice!

  edgedb-tokio = "0.5.0"

The next most common dependency is `edgedb-protocol`_, which includes the
EdgeDB types used for data modeling:

> .. code-block::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. code-block:: toml
```

  edgedb-protocol = "0.6.0"

A third crate called `edgedb-derive`_ contains the ``#[derive(Queryable)]``
derive macro which is the main way to unpack EdgeDB output into Rust types:

> .. code-block::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. code-block:: toml
```

  edgedb-derive = "0.5.1"
    
The Rust client uses tokio so add this to Cargo.toml as well:

> .. code-block::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. code-block:: toml
```

    
  tokio = { version = "1.29.1", features = ["macros", "rt-multi-thread"] }`

If you are avoiding async code and want to emulate a blocking client, you will
still need to use tokio as a dependency but can bridge with async using one of
the `bridging methods`_ recommended by tokio. This won't require any
added features:

> .. code-block::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. code-block:: toml
```

  
  tokio = "1.29.1"

Then you can start a runtime. Block and wait for futures to resolve by calling
the runtime's ``.block_on()`` method:

.. code-block:: rust

  let rt = tokio::runtime::Builder::new_current_thread()
      .enable_all()
      .build()?;
  let just_a_string: String =
      rt.block_on(client.query_required_single("select 'A string'", &()))?;

Edgedb project setup
--------------------

The EdgeDB CLI initializes an EdgeDB project with a single command in the same
way that Cargo initializes a Rust project, except it does not create a 
new directory. So to start a project: 

- Use ``cargo new <your_crate_name>`` as usual, then:
- Go into the directory and type ``edgedb project init``.

The CLI will prompt you for the instance name and version of EdgeDB to use.
It will look something like this:

> .. code-block::
> 
>   PS C:\rust\my_db> edgedb project init

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. code-block:: powershell

  PS> edgedb project init
```

  Specify the version of EdgeDB to use with this project [default: 3.0]:
  > 3.0
  ┌─────────────────────┬─────────────────────────────────┐
  │ Project directory   │ \\?\C:\rust\my_db               │
  │ Project config      │ \\?\C:\rust\my_db\edgedb.toml   │
  │ Schema dir (empty)  │ \\?\C:\rust\my_db\dbschema      │
  │ Installation method │ WSL                             │
  │ Version             │ 3.0+e7d38e9                     │
  │ Instance name       │ my_db                           │
  └─────────────────────┴─────────────────────────────────┘
  Version 3.0+e7d38e9 is already installed
  Initializing EdgeDB instance...
  Applying migrations...
  Everything is up to date. Revision initial
  Project initialized.
  To connect to my_db, run `edgedb`

Inside your project directory you'll notice some new items:

- ``edgedb.toml``, which is used to mark the directory as an EdgeDB project.

The file itself doesn't contain much — just the version of EdgeDB being 
used — but is used by the CLI to run commands without connection flags. 
(E.g., ``edgedb -I my_project migrate`` becomes simply ``edgedb migrate``).
See more on edgedb.toml in the `blog post`_ introducing the 

> EdgeDB projects CLI.

Reviewer: This file finally has a documentation page! This might be a better page to link to from here. https://www.edgedb.com/docs/reference/edgedb_toml

Author: Oh neat, it has a second config now!

- A ``/dbschema`` folder, inside which you'll see:
- a ``default.esdl`` file which holds your schema. You can change the schema
  by directly modifying this file followed by ``edgedb migration create`` 
  and ``edgedb migrate``.
- a ``/migrations`` folder with ``.edgeql`` files named starting at ``00001``.
  These hold the `ddl`_ commands that were used to migrate your schema.

>   A new file shows up in this directory every time your schema is migrated.

Reviewer: Maybe it makes sense to indent these two another layer deep since they are contained within `dbschema`? It's not wrong this way, but that would be a visual way to reinforce the nesting in the file system.

Author: Okay, I think this should do it. https://github.com/edgedb/edgedb/commit/bcbc86d13eaa634f7fbb5d2afde5aefd3571c6b3

  > my_db
  Checking EdgeDB versions...
  Specify the version of EdgeDB to use with this project [default: 3.0]:
  > 3.0
  ┌─────────────────────┬─────────────────────────────────┐
  │ Project directory   │ \\?\C:\rust\my_db               │
  │ Project config      │ \\?\C:\rust\my_db\edgedb.toml   │
  │ Schema dir (empty)  │ \\?\C:\rust\my_db\dbschema      │
  │ Installation method │ WSL                             │
  │ Version             │ 3.0+e7d38e9                     │
  │ Instance name       │ my_db                           │
  └─────────────────────┴─────────────────────────────────┘
  Version 3.0+e7d38e9 is already installed
  Initializing EdgeDB instance...
  Applying migrations...
  Everything is up to date. Revision initial
  Project initialized.
  To connect to my_db, run `edgedb`

Inside your project directory you'll notice some new items:

- ``edgedb.toml``, which is used to mark the directory as an EdgeDB project.

The file itself doesn't contain much — just the version of EdgeDB being 
used — but is used by the CLI to run commands without connection flags. 
(E.g., ``edgedb -I my_project migrate`` becomes simply ``edgedb migrate``).

> See more on edgedb.toml :ref:`here <ref_reference_edgedb_toml>` or on the
> `blog post`_ introducing the EdgeDB projects CLI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See more in our :ref:`edgedb.toml reference <ref_reference_edgedb_toml>` or on
the `blog post introducing the EdgeDB projects CLI`_.
```

- A ``/dbschema`` folder, inside which you'll see:

  - a ``default.esdl`` file which holds your schema. You can change the schema
    by directly modifying this file followed by ``edgedb migration create`` 
    and ``edgedb migrate``.

  - a ``/migrations`` folder with ``.edgeql`` files named starting at 
    ``00001``. These hold the `ddl`_ commands that were used to migrate your
    schema. A new file shows up in this directory every time your schema 
    is migrated.

If you are running EdgeDB 3.0 and above, you also have the option of using 
the `edgedb watch`_ command. Doing so starts a long-running process that 
keeps an eye on changes in ``/dbschema``, automatically applying these 
changes in real time.

Now that you have the right dependencies and an EdgeDB instance, 
you can create a client.

> .. _`blog post`: https://www.edgedb.com/blog/introducing-edgedb-projects

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. _`blog post introducing the EdgeDB projects CLI`:
    https://www.edgedb.com/blog/introducing-edgedb-projects
```
